Hi, guys, and welcome to this lesson.
So we've already been starting and stopping and rebooting and launching and terminating instances quite
a lot of times so far.
But there's a few key facts about the instance lifecycle that you need to fully understand for the exam.
So let's have a look.
Firstly, we have all am-I and we launch our instance from it.
Now you've noticed that when you do that, it goes into what's called a pending state from pending.
It should then go to a running state if all works correctly from a running state, we have a couple
options we can reboot, for instance, in which case it goes into a rebooting state and then should
return to a running state in a few minutes.
We could terminate our instance.
And that means that the instance goes into a shutting down state and then ends up being terminated.
Or we could stop an instance or we can stop hibernate instance.
And these are a couple of options we'll talk about in a moment.
So if you stop or stop hibernate your instance, it goes into a stopping state and then goes into a
stop state.
Stopping and hibernating instances is only applicable to EBS Bax instances.
If your instance uses instant store volumes instead, you cannot stop it or hibernate the instance.
Now, from a stopped state, you can then terminate the instance as well if you want, and then you'll
never be able to start it up again.
Or you can start it, and then it would go back into the pending state and eventually turn to the running
states.
So those are the various states and operations you can perform on your instances.
Now, let's have a look at a few key facts.
Stopping easy to instances applies to EBS backed instances only.
There's no charge for the stopped instance, but the EBS volumes will remain attached and they are chargeable.
The data in RAM is actually lost when you stop the instance.
The instance is typically migrated to a different host, so it's a good way of being able to move your
instance between hosts.
If you need to for some reason, for example, you might know that some scheduled hardware maintenance
is happening on a house that your instance is running on.
In that case, if you stop it and start it again, you know it's going to be on a different host when
you stop your instances.
The private IP addresses for v4 and six are retained and public IP addresses are released.
Any associated elastic types are also retained.
So then we have hibernating.
Now this applies to on demand or reserved Linux instances with hibernation.
The contents of RAM are saved to an EBS volume.
So this means you can return your instance to the state it was in, including the information that was
in RAM.
When you need to, the instance must be enabled for hibernation when it is launched and specific prerequisites
do apply when you start your instance.
After it's been hibernated, the volume is restored to its previous state.
The RAM contents are reloaded back into memory, and any processes that were previously running on the
instance are resumed.
You'll also find that any previously attached data volumes are attached, and the instance retains its
instance idle.
Next, we have rebooting instances.
This is equivalent to an operating system reboot.
The DNS name and all IPv4 and six addresses do get retained does not affect billing.
You carry on being built.
Instances can also be retired, and this can happen for a couple of reasons.
One is the West attacks and irreparable failure of the underlying hardware on which the instance is
running or the instance reaches its scheduled retirement date, and in that case, it's stopped or terminated
by IWC.
Now what about terminating?
This is essentially deleting the instance you cannot recover.
It terminated instance.
It's gone by default.
EBS route volumes are deleted now.
Additional volumes that are added to and EC2 instance are not deleted by default, and these settings
can be changed for both the route volume and any additional volumes, you add.
We then have recovering of two instances.
In this case, cloud watch can be used to monitor the system status, and it can check for and then
recover the instance if an issue is found.
This might apply if the instance becomes impaired due to underlying hardware or platform issues.
So these are the system status checks.
Remember, that's when IWC needs to do something to help recover your instance.
If the instance is recovered, it should be identical to the original instance.
And that's it for the easy to instance live cycle, when there's a few key facts that it could be really
useful for your exam.